README.md, before:

# Inline Parser

```inlineParser : string -> InlineElement list``` 

`inlineParser` parses an input string into an `InlineElement list`. Each `InlineElement` represents a different type of inline styling. Each `InlineElement` contains the necceasry information required for conversion into a `DOM Element node` at the final stage of the Markdown Parser.

`inlineParser` will be called by the Block Handlers whenever they require any inline parsing of strings.

## Module Ordering
The module ordering and brief details is as follows: 
- InlineTypes.fs
	- Declaration of D.U's and Record Types
- InlineParserHelpers.fs
	- Helper functions to aid in parsing and tokenising
- InlineParser.fs
	- Main parser implementation
- InlineParserTest.fs
    - Testbench for InlineParser


## Program Flow

Two main steps are performed.
1. Tokenisation 
2. Parsing

```
   		 string     ---------   Tokens	  --------    InlineElements
	input   ---------> |Tokeniser|  -------> | Parser |  ---------------- > output 
		            ---------	          --------
```

#### Tokenisation

`inlineTokeniser : string -> Token list`

The tokenisation step converts the input string into tokens. This allows for a better representation of characters which may have special significance such as delimiters used for formatting. 

This is achieved with the use of Regex and having the tokeniser recursively call itself on remaining part of the string that is not matched.

Some examples of characters/strings and their corresponding tokens are :

- `* ---> Asterisk`
- `[ ---> SBracketO`
- `` ``` ---> Backtick 3``
- `Hello  ---> Literal "Hello"`


#### Parsing
`parse : Token list -> Token list`

`StyledToInlineElement : Token list -> InlineElement list `

```
                ----         ----    		      ---------------------
Token list --> |S1 P| -..-> |S4 P| --> Token list -->|StyledToInlineElement|--> InlineElement list
                ----	     ----     (Styled only)   ---------------------
                 \_____________/
                      parse
                      
'S1 P' and 'S4 P' are parsers for Style 1 and Style 2 respectively
```

The parsing step performs the detection and conversion of tokens into inline elements. 

In order to enforce a heirarchy of binding of different styles, the parser will first try to parse the entire token list for one style before attempting to parse for another style.

`Token list` is passed to specific style parsing functions such as `parseCodeSpans` and `parseLinksOrImg`. Detected styles will be converted into a `Styled` token which is a wraps an `InlineElement` and will replace the original tokens which it represents. Wrapping with `Styled` token allows the `Token list` to be passed from one style parser to another.

The output of `parse` will be a `Token list` of **only** `Styled` tokens. This is then passed into a converter to unwrap the `InlineElement` from the `Styled` tokens and finally output an `InlineElement list`.


The following inline styles are currently supported : 
* `CodeSpan`
* `Links, Images + References`
* `Emphasis, Strong`
* `Breaks`
* `Text`

Planned subsequent support in group phase:
* `Katex`
* `HTML`

NB: Our version of Markdown from some of the original Markdown sytax.

## Testing

Testing was performed using Expecto framework to verify that each supported style is detected and represented correctly. This was done using small handwritten test cases which aim to test both the basic functionality of each style, their pontential variations and corner cases.

The following table shows the features tested.

|  Feature Tested | Result |
|:---------------:|:------:|
|     Codespan    | Passed |
|       Link      | Passed |
|      Image      | Passed |
|  Link Reference | Passed |
| Image Reference | Passed |
|     Emphasis    | Passed |
|      Strong     | Passed |
| Breaks          | Passed |
| Text            | Passed |

Commit message:

Refactor Link and Image parsers more effectively. Add tests that mix inline styling. Edit README

README.md, after:

# Inline Parser

```inlineParser : string -> InlineElement list``` 

`inlineParser` parses an input string into an `InlineElement list`. Each `InlineElement` represents a different type of inline styling. Each `InlineElement` contains the necceasry information required for conversion into a `DOM Element node` at the final stage of the Markdown Parser.

`inlineParser` will be called by the Block Handlers whenever they require any inline parsing of strings.

## Module Ordering
The module ordering and brief details is as follows: 
- InlineTypes.fs
	- Declaration of D.U's and Record Types
- InlineParserHelpers.fs
	- Helper functions to aid in parsing and tokenising
- InlineParser.fs
	- Main parser implementation
- InlineParserTest.fs
    - Testbench for InlineParser


## Program Flow

Two main steps are performed.
1. Tokenisation 
2. Parsing

```
   		 string     ---------   Tokens	  --------    InlineElements
	input   ---------> |Tokeniser|  -------> | Parser |  ---------------- > output 
		            ---------	          --------
```

#### Tokenisation

`inlineTokeniser : string -> Token list`

The tokenisation step converts the input string into tokens. This allows for a better representation of characters which may have special significance such as delimiters used for formatting. 

This is achieved with the use of Regex and having the tokeniser recursively call itself on remaining part of the string that is not matched.

Some examples of characters/strings and their corresponding tokens are :

- `* ---> Asterisk`
- `[ ---> SBracketO`
- `` ``` ---> Backtick 3``
- `Hello  ---> Literal "Hello"`


#### Parsing
`parse : Token list -> Token list`

`StyledToInlineElement : Token list -> InlineElement list `

```
                ----         ----    		      ---------------------
Token list --> |S1 P| -..-> |S4 P| --> Token list -->|StyledToInlineElement|--> InlineElement list
                ----	     ----     (Styled only)   ---------------------
                 \_____________/
                      parse
                      
'S1 P' and 'S4 P' are parsers for Style 1 and Style 2 respectively
```

The parsing step performs the detection and conversion of tokens into inline elements. 

In order to enforce a heirarchy of binding of different inline styles, the parser will first try to parse the entire token list for one style before attempting to parse for another style.

`Token list` is passed to functions that parse specific inline styles such as `parseCodeSpans` and `parseImage`. Detected styles will be converted into a `Styled` token which is a wraps an `InlineElement` and will replace the original tokens which it represents. Wrapping `InlineElement` with a `Styled` token allows the `Token list` to be passed from a parser for one style to another. 

Due to the recursive nature of parsing, the style parsers are as subfunctions of `parse`. In some instances, the style parsers are generated from a more general parser due to similarities how two differnet styles are parsed. For exmaple, Images and Links are almost exactly the same with the exception of an addition `!` for Images. Hence, `parseImage` and `parseLink` are both derived from the same parser but each with unique configurations.

The output of `parse` will be a `Token list` of **only** `Styled` tokens. This is then passed into a converter to unwrap the `InlineElement` from the `Styled` tokens and finally output an `InlineElement list`.


The following inline styles are currently supported : 
* `CodeSpan`
* `Links, Images + References`
* `Emphasis, Strong`
* `Breaks`
* `Text`

Planned subsequent support in group phase:
* `Katex`
* `HTML`

NB:\ 
Our version of Markdown differs from some of the original Markdown sytax.
* Addtion of `(` `)` for Emphasis and Strong i.e `*(Emphasized)*` to reduce ambiguity of what is styled
* Change of optional Link Title syntax from `[...](... "optional title")` to `[...](...)(optional title)`

## Testing

Testing was performed using Expecto framework to verify that each supported inline style is detected and represented correctly. This was done using small handwritten unit test cases which aim to test both the basic detection and conversion of each inline style, their pontential variations and corner cases.

Furthermore, there a few test which attempt to combine various inline style together.

The following table shows the features tested.

|  Feature Tested | Result |
|:---------------:|:------:|
|     Codespan    | Passed |
|       Link      | Passed |
|      Image      | Passed |
|  Link Reference | Passed |
| Image Reference | Passed |
|     Emphasis    | Passed |
|      Strong     | Passed |
| Breaks          | Passed |
| Text            | Passed |
